ssh backend support (provision) (#673)
uyuni-project/sumaform: backend_modules/ssh/README.md

# SSH backend

> This backend can be set to provisioning existing servers with the desired role (server, proxy, minion, etc...)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This backend, differently from others, assumes hosts already exist and can be accessed via SSH, thus configuring them for the desired roles (server, proxy, minion, etc.). You can use this backend to provision physical machines or in any situation where others are not applicable.
```

## First-time configuration

 - Copy `main.tf.ssh.example` to `main.tf`
 - Complete the missing information
 - Create a symbolic link to the `ssh` backend module directory inside the `modules` directory: `ln -sfn ../backend_modules/ssh modules/backend`

> ## Machine requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Requirements
```

>  - SSH access with root user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - SSH access via password or private key to a user with root privileges
```

Reviewer: Also mention access via bastion host is possible

>  - salt packages installed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - machine must come with `salt` preinstalled
```

> 

Reviewer: How do we handle/what are the requirements for particular roles with additional disks or networks?

Author: At this point, I'm assuming it is already configured on the machine. I think the way we configure, for example, a new network interface to a machine would depend on the backend.
But I will add the "additional_network" information to grains, as we have in libvirt. Makes sense?

Reviewer: Well, from a user POV I expect to be able to configure the network interface device name, which will depend on the provisioning mechanism. So I would expect it to be part of `provider_settings`to be passed via grains to Salt.

From a documentation POV I definitely expect a note here :wink:

Author: I fact the property adicional_network was already available on the base module (when I wrote the comment I didn't realize that) and is propagated to the grains file.
I documented it now, as a possible option in the bae module. Can you have a look if it's what you were expecting?

Reviewer: It's good to have it documented, what I meant here is that it should be mentioned as a (physical or virtual) hardware requirement. As in: if you want to use `additional_network`, you will need to make sure it is set up correctly and that you have the IP mask for it. This plugin will not create it for you!

### Base module

Available provider settings for the base module:

| Variable name       | Type    | Default value | Description                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|---------------------|---------|---------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | bastion_host        | string  | null          | Bastion hostname                                                                                                                                                                              |

Reviewer: Would it make sense to assume one sets a private key in `base` and then all hosts use it, unless overridden?

It seems cumbersome to have to specify details for all individual hosts in advance - I would guess in most setups they do not really need to be all different.

Author: OK makes sense. What do you think if I change it to use the value defined at host level, and if it's not defined, fall back to the value defined at base module? With the lookup method it should be simple to implement.
This way we will have more flexibility for all possible cases.

Reviewer: Makes total sense

| bastion_password    | string  | null          | The password for the bastion host                                                                                                                                                             |
| bastion_private_key | string  | null          | The contents of an SSH key file to use for the bastion host. These can be loaded from a file on disk using the file function                                                                  |
| bastion_certificate | string  | null          | The contents of a signed CA Certificate. The certificate argument must be used in conjunction with a bastion_private_key. These can be loaded from a file on disk using the the file function |
| timeout             | string  | "20s"         | The timeout to wait for the connection to become available. Should be a value like 30s or 5m                                                                                                  |

### Host modules

> Following settings apply to all modules, such as `suse_manager`, `suse_manager_proxy`, `client`, `grafana`, `minion`, `mirror`, `sshminion` and `virthost`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following settings apply to all modules, such as `server`, `proxy`, `client`, `grafana`, `minion`, `mirror`, `sshminion` and `virthost`:
```

Please consider renaming in other READMEs as well (maybe `grep` for any remaining instances). Feel free to commit directly to master.

 | Variable name       | Type    | Default value | Description                                                                                                                                                                                   |
 |---------------------|---------|---------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

>  | host                | string  | null          | The address of the host to connect to                                                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer: What happens if this is left unspecified?

Author: We will get a connection timeout error

Reviewer: I guess we do not really have a way to make the mistake more evident, do we?

Author: I don't think so

 | type                | string  | "ssh"         | The connection type that should be used. Valid types are ssh and winrm                                                                                                                        |
 | private_key         | string  | null          | The contents of an SSH key to use. These can be loaded from a file on disk using the file function. This takes preference over the password if provided                                       |
 | certificate         | string  | null          | The contents of a signed CA Certificate. The certificate argument must be used in conjunction with a private_key. These can be loaded from a file on disk using the the file function         |
 | host_key            | string  | null          | The public key from the remote host or the signing CA, used to verify the connection                                                                                                          |

An example follows:
```hcl-terraform
 ...
 provider_settings = {
   host        = "192.168.1.1"
 }
 ...
```

## Dependency between modules

> Clients an minions can only be set-up after the server provisioning. To ensure this behavior the output from server provision should be used as input on clients and minions.

Reviewer: This should be enforced by the backend. Can we put "something" in the host's output to emulate what happens in other backends, like the id of a `null_resource`?

Author: I documented it here, but It could happen in other backends if we defined the static values in server_configuration.
When we define the modules in the main module we need to specify the dependency between them, as minion depends on server output.

# SSH backend

This backend, differently from others, assumes hosts already exist and can be accessed via SSH, thus configuring them for the desired roles (server, proxy, minion, etc.). You can use this backend to provision physical machines or in any situation where others are not applicable.

## First-time configuration

 - Copy `main.tf.ssh.example` to `main.tf`
 - Complete the missing information
 - Create a symbolic link to the `ssh` backend module directory inside the `modules` directory: `ln -sfn ../backend_modules/ssh modules/backend`

## Requirements

 - SSH access via password or private key to a user with root privileges

>     - Access through bastian is also possible using password or private key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Access through a [bastion host](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bastion_host) is also possible using password or private key
```
